- [Ryu] Take it back, Kaguya!
- [Kaguya] My sincerest
apologies,
but I simply don't see a problem
with anything that
I said to you.
- So then the needs of the many
outweigh the needs of the few?
Is that the kind of
justice Lady Astrea wants?
(somber music)
- You're an idiot!
(Ryu gasps)
You're so unbelievably naive
it makes me want to throw up.
Please keep in mind, Lady
Astrea is an inspiration
and I deeply respect her,
but her silly idea of justice,
as harsh as it is,
it's just unrealistic.
You should try not to
lead yourself astray.
We don't have the power
to save everyone.
- What's the point of peace
if we sacrifice people
to obtain it?
- Listen. You're quite strong.
Strong enough to be
considered my archrival.
But truthfully, when it comes
to your mind and emotions,
you're the weakest
in the Familia.
- (scoffs) Now you're just
insulting me! (groans)
- How many have
we lost to Evilus?
How many strong and capable
warriors have fallen?
And innocent citizens?
How much of their
blood has been shed?
You want to save everyone?
Well, you can't.
(Ryu grunts)
The justice you like
to prattle on about?
It's nothing but
a convenient ideal.
There will come a time
in everyone's life
when we're forced to choose.
That includes me and you.
Perhaps you ought to try
opening up your eyes.
Maybe then you'll
finally see things
for what they really are.
(solemn music)
(Ryu sighs)
- [Ryu] But still. I just.
(Opening Song)
(dramatic music)
(Bell panting)
(wolves growling)
- I've lost count of
how many we fought.
(Bell grunting)
Gotta take 'em down fast,
or else they'll overwhelm
us again. (groans)
(Ryu sighs)
It's too late!
We're being overrun!
- [Ryu] Mr. Cranel, fall back!
- So what are we gonna do?
- We don't have a choice.
The time's now.
(Bell gasps)
Do it!
- Fire bolt!
(fire crashing and crackling)
(Bell grunts)
Miss Ryu, was that a...?
- Correct. A Blazerock that
I confiscated from the Dwarf.
An item stolen from Jura's
men actually saved our lives.
How's that for irony?
- Yeah, do we have
any more of them left?
- We have five in total.
- [Bell] Miss Ryu wants
us to avoid battle
wherever possible,
but the monsters
just keep on coming.
Huge groups of them all at once.
- Wait, hang on.
Give me just a moment.
I need to update our map.
(Bell gasps)
Keep an eye out for me.
- Will do.
Pretty good, I didn't
know you could make maps.
- Well, some basic ones, yes.
But nothing like
a professional thief
or a cartographer could make.
- [Bell] (sighs) It's always
Miss Ryu keeping me safe,
never the other way around.
I feel so weak.
- [Ryu] Mr. Cranel, you're
wasting too much energy
in battle.
- Hm?
- [Ryu] You need a more
efficient approach.
- Yeah, I know. You're
are absolutely right.
But I just can't do it!
I can't keep going at this rate.
The monsters are too
strong and too fast.
The more I panic, the
more mistakes I make!
If something doesn't change.
I'm really sorry.
(somber music)
- Mr. Cranel, you're still
nothing like most adventurers.
(Bell sighs)
You're doing a great job.
It's completely normal
to get flustered
and make mistakes.
It is your first trip
into the Deep Floors.
Any other adventurer
would be yelling at me
for making unreasonable
demands and what not.
You're being way
too hard on yourself.
You get it?
That's why you're different.
(Bell scoffs)
In fact, if you had just
a little more confidence
you could be even stronger
than you already are.
Uh.
(solemn music)
(Bell gasps)
Pay close attention to the
enemy's movements, study them.
Monsters in the Deep Floors
are highly intelligent.
They'll employ more
sophisticated tactics
than any of the monsters
you've encountered up til now.
- [Bell] Got it.
- I've noticed your right
arm tends to get shaky
when you're nervous.
Aim for their stones, and
don't tense up your shoulder.
- Okay.
- And let me do some
of the heavy lifting
from the back line.
Because for now, we're
a party. You understand?
- I do.
- Remember what I taught you?
Apart from the aiming for
their magic stones advice?
- Use surroundings
to my advantage.
- [Ryu] Don't forget that. Ever.
I know you can do it.
(solemn music)
- It's funny.
It almost feels like you're
kinda my mentor or something.
- Perhaps in another life,
maybe I could've been.
- [Lili] Welcome to the
27th floor, everyone.
- We finally made it.
- Don't let your guard down.
(monsters growling)
- Monsters incoming!
(dramatic music)
(Welf yelling)
- Kazuki!
(fire roaring)
(triumphant dramatic music)
- I guess he's got
this one covered, too.
- Okay, guys, is it me,
or does that thing
just keep getting stronger?
- He's been blastin'
monsters left and right
and that blade
still ain't broken.
That's some good
stuff, blacksmith.
- Now that's pretty impressive.
An indestructible magic sword
unlike anything
anyone's ever seen.
(Welf panting)
You okay over there?
- Yeah, yeah, I'm good. (grunts)
- Let's keep moving.
- Mr. Cranel, are you
semi-familiar
with the 37th floor layout?
- If I remember correctly,
the floor's made up
of circular walls
called "The Great Rings,"
and it's divided into
five different areas.
- That's right. A tunnel
leads to the 38th floor.
It's actually located at the
heart of the innermost area.
Then there's a tunnel
leading up to the 36th floor.
That's the outermost area.
Be sure to remember that.
- So the outermost
area, up to 36.
- [Ryu] We ought to
top off our health.
- [Bell] Oh, good idea. (gasps)
(suspenseful music)
- Please take it.
- Mm. D-do I really have to?
- This isn't the time to
be squeamish, Mr. Cranel.
Just drink it.
- Okay. Mm.
Um, it looks pretty old,
don't ya think?
- A little mold in a potion
isn't going to hurt you.
- Miss Ryu?
- Just take it. It should
work just fine, I think.
- Wait, you think? (groans)
(Bell sighs)
(Bell gulping)
(Bell screaming)
Hmm?
All the pain just went away.
I feel like I can fight again.
- Let's get going.
- Roger!
(Bell gasps)
(wolves growling)
(dramatic music)
Do we run?
- It's too late now.
We cannot escape.
Don't forget what
we talked about!
- Right!
Here goes!
(suspenseful dramatic music)
(Tsubaki yelling)
(Anya screams)
(Chloe grunts)
- Eat this!
(blood squelching)
(Lunor grunts)
(monsters screeching)
I know that I'm no expert
on the Dungeon or anything,
but is it always this
frickin' noisy down here?
- Well, if they've always
been causing such destruction,
I imagine there would be a
lot more dead adventurers
lying around on the floor.
- I'm positive it
was an Irregular!
Never seen the Dungeon
act so ferocious!
- Mm.
- Hm?
What's wrong?
- I can sense the presence
of a terrifying monster.
- What? How do you know Chloe?
- [Chloe] Call it a
feeling. A hunch, I guess.
But it's making the fur
on my tail stand up.
It could be on this floor.
It could be above
us or below us.
Either way, there's something
uncatural skulking around.
(suspenseful music)
(Ouka gasps)
(Chigusa whimpers)
- [Lili] Members of
the search party?
- [Bors] Yeah. That ugly
beast made quick work of 'em.
(Cassandra whimpers)
- [Welf] Bell fought against a
monster that did all of this?
- Yeah, but what in the hell is
capable
of such destruction?
- Master Bors.
Take us to where you
last saw Master Bell.
Right now, please.
- [Bors] Sure, sure thing.
(suspenseful music)
- [Marie] (sobs) No. No, don't!
Please, don't go that way.
(Aisha gasps)
(Aisha groans)
(gentle music)
(monster growling)
(Bell sighs)
- The monster you saw
is called a Peluda.
They infect their prey
with a toxic substance.
If I had to guess, the
adventurers in that room
probably died as a result
of a Peluda's poison quills.
If circumstances allow,
it's best to flee altogether.
- Are there any other monsters
I should be on the lookout for?
- [Ryu] Spartoi.
They're extremely skilled
at hand-to-hand combat.
The fact that they're
armed with weapons
certainly doesn't help.
- Peludas and Spartoi.
I'll be sure to remember that.
(Bell sighs)
Uh, Miss Ryu?
(Bell gasps)
(Ooze squelching)
- What's that?
- Ooze.
They secrete toxins from
their mucous membranes.
They come in a wide variety
of different colors.
And the blue ones
are safe to drink.
- [Bell] Oh, yeah?
(bright music)
- Drink up.
- I don't wanna!
- Don't worry,
I'm going to drink
the other half this time, here.
(gentle bright music)
(Bell gulping)
- [Bell] (groans) Oh
Gods, it's disgusting.
It feels like my throat's
covered in slimy snot.
Here you go. Brace yourself,
Miss Ryu.
And I'm sorry for putting
my mouth on the flask.
You're not going to drink it?
I mean, yeah, it's really
gross, but I still drank it.
Come on, that's not fair.
You have to drink some, too.
- We ought to ration
what resources we have.
This floor lacks a water source.
- Yeah well, I still think
you should drink some.
- [Ryu] Oh, I almost forgot.
You were going to ask
me a question earlier.
- [Bell] Oh, um.
Adventurers who go exploring
in the Deep Floors,
I was just wondering
if there were any
other two-man parties like us.
- I highly doubt it.
At minimum, you'd want a
group of three, no, four.
And ideally, you'd want
at least one healer.
(Bell sighs)
That's just how dangerous
it is down here.
(slow dramatic music)
- There's nobody here.
I watched my men die.
How can their corpses just
up and vanish like that?
The hell's going on?
- Okay, any ideas where Bell
and Gale Wind could have gone?
- There has to be a
clue. Let's look around.
- This room's in even
worse shape than the last.
Must've been one
hell of a battle.
- [Ryu] This wall.
- [Bell] One of the Rings?
- Yes, I'm sure of it.
It's the Third Ring.
There are five Rings in total,
but each one of the Rings
have a slightly different hue.
Only the Third Ring, located
halfway into the floor,
is chalk white.
It's hard to see, but the
wall appears to curve inwards.
- (gasps) Then that means.
- Precisely. It's the inner
side of the Third Ring,
so we're standing in
between two and three.
Now that we've determined
exactly which area we're in,
we can also figure out where
the outer exit is located.
- Right!
We're finally making
some real progress.
We're actually starting
to get somewhere.
Let's keep it up!
We're going to survive.
And then we'll make it back
to the surface. Together!
(water whooshing)
- What could've?
- [Welf] That is a big hole...
- [Lili] If it was the Lambton.
(explosion booming)
(monster screeching)
(suspenseful music)
Master Bell might be down there.
- You're kiddin' me.
Wait a minute. He might be even
farther down than we thought?
- We don't have
definitive proof,
but the one thing
we do know for sure
is that Master Bell isn't here.
So let's keep-
(water splashing)
(group gasps)
(dramatic music)
- Voltimeria!
(monster growls)
(Chigusa gasps)
- [Chigusa] Is that from the...?
(Bors growls)
- So you're the pieces of
shit that ate my people!
(Bors roars and grunts)
(dramatic music)
(Aisha exclaims)
- These things have an
insane amount of durability.
Don't challenge them head-on!
- Make a break for the exit!
(water splashing)
(group gasps)
- We're trapped!
(Ouka grunting)
(Ouka yelling)
(Daphne and Ouka grunt)
(monsters screeching)
- They just keep
on comin' at us!
- Finally, the 27th floor, meow!
Ryu! Where are you, Ryu?
Ryu! Ryu, where are you!
- Shut up, you stupid cat.
(Anya screaming)
(monsters screeching)
(groups gasps)
- There's more of them?
- [Anya] They left, meow meow.
- Something doesn't feel right.
We need to get out of here.
(dramatic music)
- There's too many of them.
- They're blocking
our escape path.
Is there another exit?
- No, that tunnel
is the only way
for us to get out of here!
- Here goes!
Out of the way!
(dramatic music)
(fire roars)
- My turn. Die!
(Aisha grunts)
(Ouka grunts)
(Daphne grunts)
- Shit. Shit!
(Ouka and Bors grunting)
(Lili whimpers)
- [Anya] Meow?
- The hell happened here?
- I've never seen
anything quite like it.
We might be looking
at the handiwork
of that thing you
mentioned earlier.
- Uh. Someone's coming.
(group gasps)
- [Anya] Meow, there!
(dramatic music)
- You sons of bitches!
(Aisha panting)
- Stubborn bastards!
- [Daphne] If this keeps up,
we're gonna run out of energy
way before they do.
- Every second that
we're stuck here
is a waste of precious time.
(Welf panting)
(suspenseful music)
(Welf yelling)
(fire roaring)
(dramatic triumphant music)
(monsters chittering)
(Welf groans)
- He's reached his limit.
(Welf exclaims)
(Welf groaning)
- Should we fall back?
No, wait. Can't
lose more ground.
(monsters howling)
(group gasps)
(dramatic music)
- Seriously?
- Even more?
- Is this the end
of the line for us?
(Cassandra grunts)
- Lady Cassandra!
- Cassandra!
(Cassandra groans)
(Cassandra gasps)
(monster screeching)
(dramatic music)
(Laura grunts)
(Laura screaming)
(monsters yelling)
- Fighting each other?
- What in the hell
is going on here?
- Could this really be?
(Laura gasps)
It's the Xenos!
(Laura chuckles)
(triumphant music)
- Hello again, my
surface-dwelling friends.
- [Lili] How'd you
know where to find us?
- Fels told us you were here.
So glad we made it in time.
- We made a promise to
our dear friend Mr. Bell,
that the next time you and
your friends were in trouble,
we, the Xenos, would
come to the rescue.
(Lili gasps)
- Hm, how much can I help
him grow before I disappear?
Expecting to sacrifice
myself right off the bat
is a terrible plan, but I need
to be prepared for the worst.
Something tells me the Deep
Floors won't be kind enough
to let us both escape
with our lives.
And eventually,
the time will come
when a sacrifice has to be made.
Even now, Mr. Cranel is chasing
after his ideal outcome.
A future where he and I survive.
Did I used to go
chasing after ideals
with that same heartfelt
look in my eyes
all those years ago?
Hm.
There will come a time in
everyone's life
when we're forced to choose.
That includes me and you.
You should be happy, Kaguya.
It looks like I'm
on your side now.
(Ending Song)
[Ryu] Next time. Desperate.